# Proposal for Approach to Systematic Review of the Effects of Breast Cancer Chemotherapy on Long-term Cognitive Function

A large portion of the current literature on cognitive impairment evaluations
of chemotherapy for breast  cancer consists of cross-sectional studies.  In
these studies chemotherapy has a small to moderate  impact on cognition in the
short run, when women who are undergoing or have just completed  chemotherapy
are compared at one point in time to women who have not had chemotherapy.
This  effect is not significant in some studies; its magnitude depends on
study design; and domains affected  varies by study: Jim - verbal ability and
visuospatial ability; Ono – attention, executive function, motor  function,
processing speed and short-term memory.


Short-term prospective studies (mostly few weeks – 6 months) show improvement
over time in  chemotherapy group compared with baseline measures. Studies vary
in selection of the comparison  group and include women with breast cancer not
treated with chemotherapy, women treated with  hormonal therapy, and a healthy
comparison group (without breast cancer).   

Given the current state of published articles and meta-analyses investigating
cognitive function following adjuvant chemotherapy in early stage breast
cancer setting, we propose the following criteria  for our systematic review:

1. Limit inclusion to longitudinal studies with >= 1 year follow-up that either:
    
    a.  Investigate change from baseline chemo group alone, or
    
    b.  Investigate change from baseline and compare the change to a control
    group:  with may be either women with breast cancer but no chemo or women
    without breast cancer

2. Examine the moderating effects of these variables: type of comparison group
( no breast cancer vs breast cancer without chemotherapy vs endocrine tx),
age, IQ, education,  and measures of mood/anxiety/depression/fatigue

3.  Consider outcomes by domain to allow comparisons of effect sizes by study
and to report summary mean effect size.

4. Examine the within and across study effect sizes of individual tests and
identify commonly used individual measures with larger effect sizes

5. Examine whether common individual measures based on neuropsychological
tests might  represent cognitive domains, which may enable the recommended use
of specific tests in future  studies to reduce the redundant testing?

## Questions to Ben:

My responses in **bold.**

* Wefel, Fan, Tager and Ahles have reported standardized scores.  

* Tager, Jenkins and Ahles have not reported individual test scores for each time point.  

* Tager reported the standardized baseline (T0) scores  and F test (DF, F
value and p values) results for time and domain scores – but no actual scores
for T1 and

* Jenkins reported regression (R^2, R^2_adj, F, p, factors, beta, t, p) on
baseline (Table 3) and percentage  of each group showing reliable change for
each test at T2 and T3 (Table 4) - but no baseline scores.

* Ahles reported domain scores adjusted for age, education and baseline score
(Table 3) – no individual  (single) test scores.

1\. We are writing to Tager, Jenkins, and Ahles to request the unadjusted mean
scores from each  time point with the hope getting additional data. In the
event of we do not receive the  requested data, is it possible to use any of
these studies’ reported data  obtain comparable  effect sizes for changes over
time in either domains or individual tests?

* The Fan study  (largest study) only included only a comparison group of
women without breast cancer; all the other (smaller) included studies used
either a comparison group with breast cancer not receiving  chemotherapy, or
the no-chemo group with an additional, no-breast cancer comparison group.

2\. Can we consider pooling the difference of differences of studies using
differently defined  comparison groups?

**It's probably not a good idea to pool studies with differing control groups. While it can be done (numbers are numbers), the real question is whether it should. We can try to do a sensitivity check and assess how different the control groups across the studies are. If the look similar enough in terms of CogImp measures and/or other variables, then it might be reasonable to pool.**

3\. With whatever studies we are ultimately able to include(based on questions
1 and 2), will we  have sufficient sample size to investigate the moderating
effects ofthese variables: type of  comparison  group (healthy vs women with
breast cancer not receiving chemotherapy),  presence or absence of additional
endocrine treatment,  age, IQ, education,  mood/anxiety/depression/fatigue

**With only 4 studies, and possibly not pool-able, I would hesitate to do more than a simple pooled estimate of effect size.**


**AYSE, you included Bender, Collins, and McDonald, in the zip file of studies you sent me. Was I supposed to take a look at those too? They didn't see relevent, but maybe I missed something.**